(bright, ambient music)
- The reason we only do one set
is because the stimulus you get with X3 is
far more powerful than what you
with regular weight training
and in nature, stimulus
and adaptive responses
of the body, it's usually one stimulus.
So of course, some of you
that know my background,
bone density medical devices.
I created a medical
device called OsteoStrong
and that's all over the world,
now, and helping hundreds
of thousands of people build bone density.
Interesting thing about
bone is one loading cycle,
one episode of force
going through the radius
and the ulna will trigger
an osteogenic response,
and we can see this
through blood analysis.
So within a few minutes after
an osteogenic experience,
the biochemistry changes,
and bone is being built.
So this is how all adaptations happen.
When you build a callus on your hand,
when you get a sun tan, nobody
says how many sets did you do
in the sun today, to get your sun tan?
That's nonsense, no one would ask
that question 'cause we don't do sets.
So why do we do sets with weight lifting?
We do sets because the
stimulus is garbage.
It is very week, we hardly
get anything out of it.
So you have to do it over and
over again to get everything
and also you have compounding
joint damage when you do that.
Why is X3 not gonna trigger any damage,
but also gonna give a
superior muscular stimulus
and response in that one experience?
Well, the obvious principle
is variable resistance.
So there's 16 studies that confirm
that variable resistance
will grow muscle faster.
It also irritates joints less, if at all.
So here are the principles
of variable resistance.
So when I'm doing a chest
press, 540 pounds here,
300 pounds here, and
a hundred pounds here.
So a very steep, variant curve.
Now, that is in accordance
to what my biomechanics are.
So I have much more capacity
for creating load here
than I do here and incredibly
so more than when I'm here.
So when I go through that experience,
I'm fatiguing the muscle, in accordance
with what the capacity is.
I'm also keeping constant tension.
So never letting slack come in the band.
In fact, when somebody ever says,
"Oh, the band keeps slipping
as I'm doing these exercises,"
well the band is slipping because
you're letting the tension
off and you're using
the device incorrectly.
So you gotta keep constant tension.
Now, body builders have
been using constant tension
for a long time, just to make sure
the fatigue is profound in the muscle.
Now, of course, it's more
profound with variable resistance,
but we also apply that
constant tension principle.
So you never let off.
Now, from a central
nervous system standpoint,
when people lift and they lock
out at the top, that's great
for a weightlifting competition 'cause
that's how they determine if
you've completed the lift,
but in reality, you're
turning the muscle on,
you're turning the muscle off,
you're turning the muscle on,
you're turning the muscle off.
It's a confusing stimulus
so no growth happens.
So when you're using X3 or you're trying
to grow, don't do that.
Constant tension.
The other thing we do in the
protocol is diminishing range.
So the first repetitions go here.
Not to lock out, but to about
right here, short of lock out.
And their full range
repetitions until I can't get
to that powerful position,
the strongest range.
Then, my range shortens
and I go half repetitions.
And then, I can't do that anymore.
And then, my last few
repetitions might only be an inch
or two and that provides
a complete stimulus
of the muscle, a complete evacuation
of the ATP glycogenic creatine phosphate,
a complete fatigue of myofibril
structure within the cell.
So you're stimulating both types of growth
to the maximum degree in every experience.
Now, when the set is over,
yes you are exhausted.
You'll also notice that as
you grow much larger muscle,
which happens very quickly with X3,
the larger the muscles become,
the more exhausted you'll be,
because a larger muscle
has a greater blood demand.
With one set, we accomplish more
than multiple sets with
regular weight training.
That's why we do one set.
Now when you're done with your set,
we get the question very frequently,
"How long do you rest for?"
It's really just until
you catch your breath.
Now, that might be a little
longer than what you're used to,
because this is an
incredibly powerful stimulus,
but once you catch your breath
and your breathing rate
goes back to normal,
which says your heart rate
has gone back to normal,
go ahead and do your next set.